Updated CSM bonus structure (#18155)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/cs-and-onboarding/how-we-work.md

### Customer Success Managers

> Each CSM is assigned customer accounts accumulating to ~$2.5m ARR to work with.  We use the CSM Managed Segment in Vitally to track this against goals and CSMs should not assign this themselves (that's up to Dana, Phil and Simon).

Reviewer: tweaked this one because the thing to not do is actually setting yourself as the CSM on the account - vitally automation adds the segment off the back of the CSM field, so assigning as CSM == adding the segment. "don't assign the segment" doesn't quite catch it.

```suggestion
Each CSM is assigned customer accounts accumulating to ~$2.5m ARR to work with.  We use the CSM Managed Segment in Vitally to track this against goals. Don't assign yourself as the CSM on an account - assigning a CSM automatically adds the account to the segment. Allocation is up to Dana, Phil and Simon.
```

> Each CSM is assigned customer accounts accumulating to ~$2.5m ARR to work with.  We use the CSM Managed Segment in Vitally to track this against goals and CSMs should not assign this themselves (that's up to Dana, Phil and Simon).

Reviewer: tweaked this slightly as there's a Vitally playbook that adds the segment based on a CSM being assigned, so assigning as CSM == adding the segment. 

```suggestion
Each CSM is assigned customer accounts accumulating to ~$2.5m ARR to work with.  We use the CSM Managed Segment in Vitally to track this against goals. CSMs should not assign themselves as the CSM on an account as it automatically adds the account to the segment. Allocation is up to Dana, Phil and Simon.
```

- Your OTE comprises an 80/20 split between base and contractual bonus.
- Bonus is paid based on revenue retention above 100%, and is _uncapped_.
  - For example, if you have 100% revenue retention and your target is 120% revenue retention, you get 0% of bonus. For 120% retention, it's 100% bonus, and for 140% retention, it's 200% bonus. This is on a sliding scale so if you hit 110% retention you get 50% bonus.
  - The Q3 2026 target is 110% quarterly NRR. This may change in future depending on how things go.
  - To calculate retention we use the total usage over the past quarter and annualize this, then compare it to the quarter before that.
    - For monthly customers this is the total of their 3 invoices multiplied by 4

>     - For annual customers, we look at the usage-based MRR and multiply by 4

Reviewer 2: Just want to be clear about this (as its been discussed before):

- For the annual customers, is the usage-based MRR pre or post discount? I believe its post-discount, but it might be good to call that out explicitly.
- For refunds/credits applied after invoice, I believe the NRR is also adjusted, might be good to call that out too

Reviewer 2: @simfish85 Any clarity on the above? Especially the definition of usage-based MRR. I'm actually not sure if it means pre or post volume discounts. I think its been changed back and forth a couple times.

Candidly, I think pre-discount makes a bit more sense, but would be good to know where we are now.

Reviewer 3: I know I'm new to the party, but my [very very limited read] was the risk of taking an account in my book and closing them on an annual discounted credit purchase would end up contracting my NRR. Essentially, **I'd be penalized for doing the thing we publicly tout as good for both PostHog and the customer.**

What about applying the same discount to the prior quarter being compared against, so both sides are measured against the discounted rate? If it's a straight purchase of credits (no growth) then nothing changes. If they spend more through a discounted credit purchase than the prior quarter, then that's an annual plan conversion PLUS growth. If it's less than they would have spent over the prior quarter, then it's contraction and should fairly count against the quarter's attainment for a given CSM. 

Keeps incentives aligned because if there's actual growth or contraction, it'd reflect in the delta. The one-time discount-as-CSM-NRR-contraction is neutralized without impacting churn, usage, or genuine growth.

And getting the discount amount should be trivial via Salesforce opportunity records, which can then be conditionalized against other data (`owner == $csm`, `close_date == $thisQuarter`) to auto apply the amount discounted to the prior quarter and compute the delta (positive or negative)... so no additional book-keeping or operational complexity(?)

Author: Yeah sorry for the delay - I had a chat with @bendbradley and we will stick with the undiscounted / pure usage based MRR numbers here.  As your goals are % based it doesn't make sense to use discounted revenue numbers for the calculation for the reasons you've outlined here.

>     - For newer customers: If it's a brand new customer with less than 1 quarter of revenue, we start measuring next quarter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - An account starts counting toward NRR once it has 3 paid invoices in the previous quarter (a $0 month doesn't count).
```

- If an account is added to your book:
  - If you inherit a new account that hasn't been managed by a PostHog human before, you have a 3 month grace period - if they drop or churn in that initial period, they won't be counted against you. We want to encourage you to right-size customers, rather than your deliberately letting them wastefully spend money due to some poor implementation.
  - If you inherit an account from another CSM, AE, or AM, it will normally count toward your NRR in that quarter, even in the first 3 months.
    - In exceptional circumstances we may need you to take on an account which we know isn't in a good state (ie. despite the previous owners best efforts we haven't been able to work with them).  We will note in writing on a case by case basis that any churn or downgrade in the first 3 months won't be counted against you.
- How bonus is calculated:
  - In general, we compare annualized ARR over the past quarter with annualized ARR from the previous quarter.
    - For Q3 2026 bonus: Q3 ARR vs Q2 ARR
  - For customers on annual plans, we will look at their usage-based spending (instead of total contract amount / 12)

>   - If an account is removed from your book mid-quarter, they will not be included in bonus calculation. We do this extremely rarely, even if a customer shuts down. If we have to give a customer a big refund, we’ll deal with your bonus on a case by case basis depending on what happened, but usually this will still be counted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If an account is removed from your book mid-quarter (we do this extremely rarely), it will not be included in bonus calculation.
  - If a customer churns during the quarter, their current ARR counts as $0 and they will be removed from your book the next quarter.
  - If a customer drops below the $20k threshold with no likelihood of growing, we don't adjust their ARR - it counts as-is, and they will be removed from your book the next quarter.
  - If we have to give a customer a big refund, we'll deal with your bonus on a case by case basis depending on what happened, but usually this will still be counted. 
```

 
**Account allocation**
- CSMs manage approximately $2.5M in ARR.

> - This coverage amount will grow ~10% quarterly to match our growth targets.

Reviewer: I wanted to highlight that a CSM's book isn't anchored purely on total managed ARR as the work depends a lot on the number of accounts and the size of each account, which is something we consider whilst allocating accounts. 

@phildelgobbo keen to get your input on this section as the one driving capacity work! anything you would change/phrase differently? anything i missed? is it also worth linking the capacity modelling dashboard here as well? 

```suggestion
- CSMs manage approximately $2.5M in ARR. Books are balanced by shape as well as total: a target number of accounts per ARR bucket, so a single large account doesn't dominate a book.
- As of Q3 2026, a typical book is roughly 5 accounts at $20-30k, 12 at $30-60k, 7 at $60-100k, 4 at $100-250k, and 2 at $250k+. These numbers will shift as coverage grows and capacity modeling improves.
```

Reviewer 2: Happy to add that in! I think it helps clarify where the numbers come from. I will say, I made some tweaks a week ago, so these numbers are slightly different. New suggestion I'll commit below (with link to dashboard as well).

```suggestion
- CSMs manage approximately $2.5M in ARR. Books are balanced by shape as well as total: a target number of accounts per ARR bucket, so a single large account doesn't dominate a book.
- As of Q3 2026, a typical book is roughly 4 accounts at $20-30k, 12 at $30-60k, 5 at $60-100k, 5 at $100-250k, and 2 at $250k+. These numbers come from our [live capacity calculation](https://us.posthog.com/project/2/dashboard/1737835), and will shift as coverage grows and capacity modelling improves.
```
